---
layout: post
title: "retail"
date: 2014-04-30
category: blogpost
---
<p>
It was six months in my time at Club Monaco, a store which I hadn't heard of before starting the job there. With no previous retail experience, my only way of getting my foot in the door was through Kayla. She is undoubtedly one of the most stylish girls, a natural fit for a high-end retail clothing store.

Unfortunately, by the time that I had started working, she had left, meaning that I had to assimilate into the working community. It was truly a test of my social skills in integrating myself into the pre-existing social circle. It turned out that the workplace was rather dominated by females, both in the gender composition of co-workers and regarding the traffic of customers that Club Monaco generated. Actually, I take that back; it wasn't lmao (EDIT THIS).

Integrating myself to the workplace wasn't by any means an easy task. The pre-existing friendships filled with inside jokes and topics previously discussed between them was an obstacle seemingly made greater than it was by a crippling self-doubt and self-labeled social anxiety and paranoia (only pick one or say it better l0l).

There were times I must admit where I opted for the times of solitude where I just went around the store folding clothes and fixing things in order to minimize interactions with my co-workers. (DRAW A PICTURE NOT JUST WRITE STUFF) such as [scattered/messy piles of clothes or the hanger racks, which customers would often screw up by placing them back in the other direction would drive me 180, seemed much more appealing or a place i would find myself in rather than the counter (omg fix l0l)]. When such tasks were done, I would have to convince myself that it wasn't so bad talking to my coworker and walk to the counter where they congregated. Of course, in time, I became more comfortable and my co-workers more acclimated with my sense of humor and idiosyncracies that I sometimes deemed to be a bit odd.

The coworkers.

You have the bossy, pmsing, complaining about every bad customer co-worker, that if you can learn to be on her goodside by mirroring (kind of sounds weird, empathize with) their behaviors and they seem so bad.

Then you have the instagram fashionista of the store with a bomb outfit.

Then you have the loved one of the store who is the most relatable.

You have the talkative one.

You have the "I listened to that band before anyone else and now I just don't like them" co-worker, who had any droplet of self-reflection would have learned not to utter that phrase this day and age. The arrogant one that thinks they're superior.

The one who is disliked by a majority of the co-workers. Considering that I had been warned of their flaws of being "vindictive," it undoubtedly fixated and unfairly opiniated my process of getting to know this co-worker.

You have the silent one with a similar demeanor to that of my own, in that their time spent conversing with co-workers were minimal and rather folded clothes and helped customers. Only to find that when initiating the conversation, they can carry it on , insinuating to me that such silence was a matter of choice rather than by nature.

You have the motherly figure of the store, who is commanding and yet the most understanding. Taking matters into her own hands, with scolds here and there. It was this co-worker that I took a liking to more than all of the others. Perhaps it was because she made efforts to instill work ethics and values that I deemed important and did not see demonstrated in the workers, and considering that I was one of the newest workers, I couldn't really say anything (dude bruh this run on plz fix). Perhaps it was because through times of trial and minor scoldings, the manner in which she handled herself protruded as gracefully. But in all honesty, I felt most understood as our personalities were similar but different. same but different but same (l0l). She commented on my taste in music and she liked it LOL. Times others looked sideways during my comments or be it jokes, from her I could get a frown-smile followed by a "you're weird." Perhaps it was because she made an effort to even be mean at all, hopefully playfully. Shifts scheduled with her went by much more quickly needless to say.

Then you have the regional manager (missing in action, somewhere in this paragraph dude make that work) that once called me incompetent. Just when you think my retail experience was devoid of the suppressing higher-up, often talked about, packed into a tiny figure of maybe 5'3 with a frontal with a smile towards customers, only to find an overbearing, suppressing of workers of lower status kinda deal who you hope is missing in action for extended periods of time.

things still to write: the work with customers and how i helped them, maybe specific experiences, etc!!!
</p>


<p>
My experience and goals for working retail.

As a computer scientist, people have told me and questioned the reasons for my decision to work as a sales associate. I seek to elaborate my thought process in my reasoning for applying for such a job and the skillsets that I seek to gain from having such an experience.
Having a high standard in terms of assessing social interactions and conversations with others, which I feel that is often derived from online videos or movies, I feel that my social interactions and conversations do not measure up to the quality nor the fluidity of many that I see from the media and videos. Although I do realize that I am not at the point of being completely comfortable with me being in my own skin as I am still somewhat young, the high standards to which I hold not only my actions but others as well prove to be a double edged sword, resulting in the harshness of self criticisms and judgements of others.

Two things that have strikingly perhaps altered or allowed for a different perspective in self-amelioration were quotes as followed:
"Those who strive to be perfect end up in therapy” and “there are parts of yourself that you will never be able to change." The former was rather blunt and a generalization without a doubt, but I could not help but see myself in the first clause of quote in that everyday interactions and goals, I strived to be perfect, subconsciously forgetting the fact that such goal was impermissible/unreachable. I realized that what I should strive for is self-amelioration and not quite perfection.  Instead of beating myself up, metaphorically listening to the imaginary voice that I wasn’t perfect and that my failures were embarassing, I should have accepted the fact that no matter what mistakes I have made, I should strive to learn from them as I will make much more mistakes similar to those of the present in the future and look forward to them as life lessons rather than hurdles knocked over. As life is race in a slight sense, speed of finishing being of completely of opposite importance, no matter what life must go on. We must not grovel in the dirt over the knocked over hurdle and adjust our reactions and responses to finish the race.

The second was quite shocking in the fact that I believed myself to be a blank canvas in which I can paint a final product in the manner that I wanted. And yet an advisor and psychiatrist informed me that our inherent nature and characteristics are close to being unchangeable. She further explained that our persona was one that we had to learn to deal with by learning to respond to our inherent nature differently. The emotions that we feel inside are quite set in stone, although the way we choose to react to certain circumstances were up to attitude, understanding, and empathy. Although I am not quite sure if that is truth set in stone, I did agree with the fact that our responses to circumstances and feelings were of our own choice. We ourselves have the choice to be mad over an insult or to laugh it off and deflect the arrow shot at us with mental and emotional fortitude.
This definitely digresses from what I sought out to address in the first place so I will get back to the point in which I initially was inspired to write this monologue.
My initial goals from working a job was one, to live a more structured and routine life, two, to gain more a perspective in the harsh reality of the work field in the world today, and three, to gain some spending money for hobbies and the college lifestyle of having fun and going out.

Knowing myself and the habits that I’ve acquired throughout the years, I have come to the realization that I am a reactive person in nature, reacting to the circumstances and expectations set for me to achieve. I feel that this quality as well is also a double-edged sword as I can perform and meet those expectations and thrive in dynamic circumstances and inversely be lackadaisical when none previously mentioned are existent. Thus, I sought to create a more structured and routine lifestyle by working a job and taking on tasks that I knew I was capable of instead of letting my potential and energy be wasted by browsing online or taking life as a relaxed pace. I’ve also felt that the essence of time was much more deeply and consciously pressing against my lifestyle had I put myself in this situation. I sought out to create a healthy amount of stress for myself to live a productive, routine lifestyle and yet embrace the stress, using it as a fuel for productivity and performance. Breaking free from the perspective of having a decent amount of time to complete my tasks, I viewed time as a currency, which undoubtedly had to be spent wisely, forcing better time management skills and prior planning.

Elaborating on my second goal, I sought out to gain more a perspective of the world field that many deal with today. Some say that I was blessed with a ticket, attaining a top-tier university like UCLA and being supported financially for tuition, as I am the only child. I knew that I was blessed, but not up to the extent until I had started working at near minimum-wage jobs and attempting to support my occasional outings and objects of desire. This not only allowed me to reflect on my privileges and be thankful, but also fueled my determination to fully utilize the privilege that some wish to have had. I realized the difference that thankfulness had on the way that I saw life and the attitude in which I approached with to live with.
</p>
