---
layout: post
title: "dreams"
date: 2014-04-30
category: blogpost
blurb: "Proclamation of a dream will often engender two responses by those who hear it. Some may tell you that it is insurmountable, while the others will entertain the idea, for the sake of ... "
---
<p>
Proclamation of a dream will often engender two responses by those who hear it. Some may tell you that it is insurmountable, while the others will entertain the idea, for the sake of perhaps feigning courteous decency. For any matter, I do not think it wise for one to declare his/her intentions of future objectives, as the proposal itself accomplishes nothing but bring about mere reactions. And I do not believe those are the right kind of “actions” we are looking for when discussing the topic of dreams.
</p>
<p>
I have always been intrigued by individuals whose inner drives to perform inflated in proportion to doubtfulness received from others. Was it that their satisfaction of success stemmed from the emancipation of preconceived notions? Was it not they that willingly enslaved themselves to such suffocating method of thought? Or is it that they gain satisfaction being more correct than another ill-advised, laughable human being, to whom they undoubtedly give so much intellectual recognition? Perhaps it would be wiser to ascertain that there is no certainty to your potential or lack thereof, that there is no certainty to empty claims of a buffoon, be it the dreamer or the doubter, and that there is no certainty in this experiment of a journey called life.
</p>
