---
layout: post
title: "justice"
date: 2014-04-30
category: blogpost
---
<p>
A group of friends, myself included, went downtown to barhop and have a fun night. It, however, ended in a manner that I had not ever imagined. Breaking out into a fist fight, with one of my male friends pushing a girl and grabbing her by the hair, it definitely was clear who was in the wrong. Not much happened in that there were no casualties, but it was because it was San Jose downtown, not exactly Oakland or Compton. 
	On the way back home, most of our friends ended up laughing the night off after breaking up the fight and proceeded to recall our individual experiences and perspective of the exciting ending to the night. They dismissed it as a mere shitshow, which served to provided an adrenaline-pumping story to tell and inside joke in our group. Although it was the positive and light-hearted way to forget about the event, I felt that there was a discussion to be had in a more profound and constructive manner. So I did.
	I spoke out saying that this event should not happened in the first place, and although no one was hurt, there was a possibility, not just in the slightest for the hypothetical and what-if sense, but a legitimate probability that such brash actions of lashing out by a friend that led to the events of tonight could have led to casualties and injuries of fellow members of the group, not even just the initial instigator of the event. 
	One friend spoke out telling me that, this friend actually went through difficulties and hardships that we could not possibly imagine. That we could not possibly imagine the idea of our own birth-giving mother had committed suicide. I could have reacted in two different ways when hearing that. Being slightly buzzed and adrenaline pumping, I chose out to put forth my sense of justice arguing that no matter what the circumstances of a person, we either have a choice in reacting negatively to the world, justifying actions and responses, that when reflected objectively, they are morally incorrect and fallible. Even if his mother committed suicide, it did not give him a reason to be angry at the world and follow after her own path in throwing himself into the fire as well. In this case, we were all dragged in. Others were put in possible danger. The other option was to stay silent and sympathize with my friend and offer condolences for his losses. 
	There’s a large part of me that wholeheartedly regrets the insensitivity that I displayed, not directly to my friend, thank goodness, but to the select few that engaged in this debate with me. In the state of chaos and confusion, I opted to put forth my beliefs and what should have happened instead of accepting what had happened. It wasn’t even that I couldn’t accept what had happened. That’s life. I cannot seek to change the past, because I am not God. However, I seek not to repeat the past as if I do not learn from experience let alone history, I am a fool headed towards misery and a myriad of failures and disappointments. 
Sure, things happen because of a reason. Everyone has heard of this cliché. But what I feel that people often forget to think about is the reason in which such event occurred in the first place. Do we just take life as it come without any action? I’ve seen a lot of people who are prone to inaction and live a life of laziness, instead of working for what they want, only to give up what they wanted in saying what they wanted did not happen for a reason and they should seek to contempt and accept life as it comes. Is the reason one which you could not control? Or is the reason due to the lack of action and perseverance? I believe clichés are clichés because they contain a nugget of truth in it, but expanding on such knowledge and picking apart at why it holds true after passing of generations I feel deserve some discussion. At least, in the ways that I have seen this phrase, it was used as an empty fulfillment, not necessarily an excuse, but a meaningless proverb which disappointed people used to cement the difference of expectations and the manifestation of their reality in comparison. What exactly was the reason? If such expectation was too great, the goals were unrealistic and that was the reason. If they were achievable, but the effort wasn’t (inserted/put in/ made), the inaction and lack of dedication was the reason. 
I’ve definitely digressed from my initial point, but my point is this. The comparison of what occurred versus a more extreme negative scenario and a more expected and positive scenario to justify and accept the given occurrence is futile. It is truly meaningless.  “We could have had injuries if the group that we had picked a fight with were gangsters. We could have not picked a fight to begin with. But what happened happened. Just accept it and laugh it off.” That’s what one of my friends told me. It happened for a reason. Just accept it. But what about the reason? Instead of comparing the outcomes, why not delve in slightly deeper in dissecting the cause of such outcome in the first place. You cannot just say that you respected his decision at the time he chose to pick a fight. But to say that Jared is Jared and that’s what he did, so I will respect is decision is indifference is it not? 
Let’s consider the case in which you have a friend in a relationship and you are aware of the infidelity the friend’s partner has committed. Do you tell your friend? The morally correct scenario calls for the victim of mistreatment to be informed, but at the cost of happiness and potentially the relationship in its entirety. The other is to remain without action and allow the situation to progress as you are technically not in a position to intervene in the love affairs of others. This by any means is not a black and white situation, however blah blah I don’t know exactly how this relates.
</p>


